So
welcome to How to Report Bugs! In this video we're going to find a bug in one of the
methods, inside the engine. I'm going to show you how to fix that bug, so that
when you are running your game you get a aim solution every single frame, like
you can see on the logs at the bottom-left of the screen. And then, we're also going to go
ahead and move all of our code across to forward declarations like
this, so that we are doing what we
suggested a couple of videos ago. So I'll see you in there!
So, we've got this slightly strange problem. Let's clear the log, just recap what
it is really quickly. Taken a quick sample there, of a whole bunch of frames.
Just have a quick look at the log, a bit more space would be great! We can see that, for most
frames, there's no aim solution found for some reason. So, where's this
falling down? Well, I'll show you the general approach, then I want you to go through and
work out exactly what the problem is, because it's going to be a really good exercise. I could, of course,
have glossed over this problem and ignored it and just set the
code in a way that works, but that's not going to really help you. It's important that when you get something going,
and you're not sure what's happening like this, that you know how to debug it.
So, in case you're curious, firstly, how I discovered that this is where the aim
problem happens, what I did is I started right up at
the TankPlayerController, and I just made sure that this
AimTowardsCrosshair method is even being called. So, I did something like that,
and then, I just said aim called
or AimTowardsCrosshair
called"), etc. And then, I did that,
looked at the logs, saw that that was being called every frame,
took the logs away, went down to the Tank, made sure that
the AimAt was being called inside the Tank.cpp,
and so on, until I got down to the TankAimingComponent
and discovered that actually, the problem is that this HaveAim
Solution, this SuggestProjectileVelocity method is being inconsistent
in returning a result on it. Now look, I'd have to
own up to a mistake here, but it's not my mistake causing the problem actually. I have made a mistake
with these parameters. If you go after LaunchSpeed, you'll see that the next parameter expected
is a boolean for HighArch equaling false, and I've actually
put in the Trace option. I can't just skip the
collision radius and the override gravity. But what will actually be happening
here is that this enum will just effectively return false in this case, so
doing that would be the same thing.
But what's interesting with this method, and there's a problem with the method the way the method
runs, is that all of the parameters after Launch Speed are not only optional but they have
default values. The HighArc, the CollisionRadius, all of those things have default values.
So let's just try running this, without any more parameters after launch speed
and see what happens. Of course, I need to compile, and what I
think is going to happen is that, we're actually still going to have the problem. We're going to get this no aim
solution found. I'll clear the logs, while I wait for the compile. There you go! Most of
the time there's no aim solution. That's going to break everything, cause when we come to actually moving
the barrel, we need to be making sure that we are getting an aim instruction
every single frame, we need to be able to rely on that. We don't want execution flow to stop here,
unless, unless we happen to be pointing at the sky
or some other unsolvable solution, and then it's a place. And then,
it's fine for there to be no aim solution there, the barrel shouldn't try and move to hit the sky
because it can't. But there absolutely should be a solution, when I'm aiming at that point on the ground, not
just a solution every so ever many, however many frames but every single frame.
Alright, now it turns out that if here you come in and actually
put in false 0, 0,
and then crazily the
default value as I'm going to NotTrace. We don't need a
debug trace. Just giving it this default value makes all
the difference. Watch this, it's ridiculous! Because when you call a
function, it shouldn't matter if you miss out a parameter that has the default method.
Alright, the function should still work or complain that it's not going to work, but in this case,
it's actually changing it's behavior. Look! Now, every single frame we are getting
an aim solution, not a single one missed. So, that's what you need to be doing in your code. You
need to be saying false, LaunchSpeed, then false, 0, 0, and then the Do
NotTrace. It's that bottom line that makes the difference. If I comment that out
and recompile, it's that one that makes the difference. So,
let's just show that, and then, I think I'll bring the point home. Now, interestingly
I've also tried this... What have I done? I've probably left a trailing comma. Yep, there you go!
So let's recompile! I've also tried this in version 4.12.2
of Unreal, and it doesn't work there either, so please don't yet
upgrade to 12.4.2. In fact, we're going to keep this entire project in 4.11. It's very
easy to manage multiple versions. You click Add Versions and install whatever previous version you
want. Alright, I don't really care which subversion you're in particularly, but I want
us to keep Building Escape in 4.10, Battle Tank in 4.11, and then, the next section,
we'll go up to  4.12. So the problem doesn't go away in 4.12.
And I will report this bug, and I'll even show you how to report it, in just a second.
But let's just take a look. There you go, the problem's back!
OK, so I must specify this parameter, and what that does is,
it gives us a, a way of
giving EPIC a very easy reproducible bug.
What you can do for them is, you can say something like comment
or comment this parameter or even line. If you
really want to be funny, you could put the comma there and do that, so you can just
say "// comment this line to produce
bug". OK, and then if they were to come along and comment this line like
that, then the bug would occur. And the, what you can do is you can commit your
work, and then, you can push it up to the Internet.
And once it's on the web you can go to, let's just say, Github,
and let's just take a look, github.com/bentristem.
Click follow, [Laughs] just to keep the only child in me happy!
So, you go and find where you have committed it to the
web. Now, let's just imagine that it's this commit here. Now that's publicly available
right? So, you could copy the link address and say, hey EPIC, it would be a good
idea if you did this. I've got this bug. The way that you reproduce it is,
number 1, you go get this check-out from here, from this link address, and that will
be a link to the exact commit, so they can go get the code. You open it in version
4.11.2 or 4.12.2,
you then go into the TankAimingComponent.cpp,
and you comment outline 40.  And you will find, And then, you
what you do is, you run the game. Compile and run the game... We don't need to tell them to compile, right. You run the
game and notice that there's no aim solution every frame, only if we
specify what should be an optional parameter, and by doing that, you'd be giving them a
very specific bug reproduction
scenario. Because whenever you report a but, it's important you report it in a way that
the people who are receiving that bug report are able to do something about it.
So, I will go ahead and report this bug after the video. You probably
should report the same bug as well. I think what we need to do, just for the rest of the video
while we're in the spirit of getting our code working properly, is
I'm going to make a li, I'm going to "// TODO
report bug". And I'm also going
to make sure that this line is commented here,
that "// Parameter
must be present to prevent
bug". OK, to remind yourself not to
remove that parameter. It'll also put things back in a sensible line and just leave a
default to report the bug. OK, the other thing I want to do, and that's going to be your challenge,
is I want to move to forward declarations, just rolling you back two or three lectures
for all of these classes. Remember that in the header files we
shouldn't be importing other classes. So in the Tank.h,
unless we're inheriting from Pawn, like we are here, that's fine, but we shouldn't be
importing the TankAimingComponent.h. So here's
your challenge for this video! Move to Forward Declarations! Personally report that but to EPIC, if
you wish. Recap the Forward Declarations video if you need to, then move to Forward
Declarations in all the header files, making sure you really understood that content, and then,
test your game still runs. So go ahead, pause the video, and let's move to forward declarations and generally
have a look over our code right now.
So welcome back, let's do this pretty quickly!
So, the TankAimingComponent, we don't don't need that #include in the Tank.h,
but we are going to need it in the Tank.cpp.
Then, you ask yourself in the Tank.h, why did we put TankAimingComponent
in, in the first place? Well, that will be because it's used here, TankAimingComponent.
So, what we want to do is, simply say class
UTankAimingComponent; I might label this section as "// Forward declarations.
OK, now we're getting very explicit
about what's going on. Right, very cool! let's go through all of the header files!
This one is good because we need Pawn, because we're inheriting from Pawn, and we always have a generated.
OK, AI Controller! It's importing the Tank!
Naughty naughty! That should be in the TankAIController.cpp.
So we import Battle Tank, we import the Tank, and then,
we obviously include its own header file. Cool!
So, in the AIController header file we say, well why did we bother importing
the Tank in the first place? Because somewhere down here we have ATank,
which is where we then do a forward declaration
class ATank. Alright, keeps life simple. Tank
AimingComponent, that's fine! It is an Actor, so it must
import Actor, and the generated is normal. Let's move on! The Barrel, nothing
funny going on here. It is a StaticMesh and it imports a generated file. Cool!
PlayerController, any funny business? Yes, there's a Tank! So we move the Tank #include
from the TankPlayerController header file, over into the code
file, in here. You go back to the header file, ask a
question, do I really need it? You do, because we're using the type there, so then, we do a forward
declaration for the Tank. Ahh!
Fast, furious, but simple! Hopefully that was simple
for you. If you're not sure what I was doing there, then please go back to the video on
forward declarations and that will explain it. So, I'm just going to compile now, make sure that
this works. Make sure that we get not only the game running as it was,
with all those forward declarations, but also that we get the
aim solution every single frame, even if I let go of the mouse. Cool! So now we finally
are in a position where we can use this structure to
get the barrel elevating and then the turret rotating.
The forward declarations, by the way, are nothing to do with that, that was just they needed doing, so I was getting them done.
So that's it! See you in the next video!